Crysede - Alec George Walker

Alec George Walker is a largely forgotten English textile designer that flourished throughout the 1920s. His design work was popularly used within the fashion industry with much of the hand block printed design work being produced on silk, although cotton and linen were also included.

Although being born into the textile industry, his father was a Yorkshire textile manufacturer, Walker was by temperament a fine artist. He created Crysede, the company in which he sold his textile design work, as a textile company, but the processes and creative techniques used reflected those based on fine art printing and painting.

The illustrations show Walkers interest in and ability to produce textile patterns that had more than a striking resemblance to the then popular French textile pattern work. This was by no means a coincidence, as in the early 1920s Walker had actually been encouraged by Raoul Dufy into producing his own textile work. Dufy's influence can be clearly seen in a large proportion of the work produced by Crysede. Walker, it must be remembered was neither a professional trained artist of textile designer. However, through his father, he intrinsically understood both the technical and commercial aspects, along with connections within the retail trade, so that Crysede always had a good chance of success.

Walker set up his company in Cornwall, rather than Yorkshire, as the county then and now was a magnet for creative individuals across a number of mediums including painting, sculpture, ceramics and jewellery. Many of the textile prints are actually named after Cornish locations with names such as Godrevy, Zennor and Penbarth.

The textiles produced by Crysede throughout the 1920s were considered both fashionable and irreverent. Many of the patterns were playful, colourful and fun and so therefore suited a decade that placed so much emphasis on the irreverent but creative aspects of the modern post-Victorian world.

The company exported across the globe and even exhibited textile design work in London. Crysede struggled to continue into the 1930s, finding it difficult to make the transition from the carefree playfulness of the 1920s to that of the much more austere and financially constrained 1930s. This was also true of Walker who had a nervous breakdown in 1929 and had to withdraw from the company.

Crysede under the leadership of Walker was perfectly timed and perfectly placed. It both took advantage of and reflected the casual but intensely creative atmosphere of the 1920s. In some respects, Alec Walker could and perhaps should be seen, as far as textile design is concerned, as the Raoul Dufy of England.

Far too few books have been published regarding the subject of Walker and Crysede. However, a comprehensive title with many illustrations of the textile work produced by the company can be found in Hazel Berriman's 1993 Crysede: Unique Textile Designs of Alec Walker. Although now relatively rare it is a must for anyone interested in this small but creative Cornish textile outlet of the 1920s. Penlee House and Gallery at Penzance also has a comprehensive collection of Crysede fabric samples, their website can be found here.

Further reading links:
Crysede: Unique Textile Designs of Alec Walker
Twentieth Century Textiles
Twentieth-Century Pattern Design
Fabrics and Wallpapers: Twentieth-Century Design
The Art of Fashion Accessories: A Twentieth Century Retrospective
Fashion: A History from the 18th to the 20th Century
Twentieth-century Fabrics: European and American Designers and Manufacturers
Textile Designs: Two Hundred Years of European and American Patterns Organized by Motif, Style, Color, Layout, and Period
5,000 Years of Textiles
British Textiles
The Modernist Textile: Europe And America

Source: http://thetextileblog.blogspot.com/2010/04/alec-walker-and-crysede.html
